README.md, before:

         _ ____   _    _  __        _   ___  
        | |  _ \ / \  | |/ / __   _/ | / _ \ 
     _  | | |_) / _ \ | ' /  \ \ / / || | | |
    | |_| |  __/ ___ \| . \   \ V /| || |_| |
     \___/|_| /_/   \_\_|\_\   \_/ |_(_)___/ 

Description
========

**JPAK** is a multi-use Javascript Package System, developed for loading several files at once with only one package.

For what this can be used?
========

**JPAK** can be used for many things. From game assets to webpage assets. It makes easier to preload all images and resources that you need for website.

What is done
========
*   Javascript Loader
*   Python Packer
*   JPAK 1.0 Specification file
*   Load progress event
*   Get file as Base64
*   Get file as HTML Data URI (for hide from Network Requests)
*   GZIP Decompress Support, forked from https://github.com/jsxgraph/jsxgraph/
*	Simple C# Windows Tool for Exploring and Export Content from JPAK Files

TODO
========
*   Load files from JPAK only when needed. A.K.A. - Fetch only the necessary parts from jpak file.
*   Add option to compress files on packing.
*	More stuff on JPAK Explorer for Windows
*	JPAK Explorer for Linux

How to use it
========

**JPAK** is made to be simple. You can use for any file you want. First, you need to create a JPAK package.

You can use the python script called **packer.py** at `packer` folder. The sintax is simple, just create a folder and thrown what you want on that package inside it.

```shellscript
python packer.py PackageFolder
```

This will generate a file called `PackageFolder.jpak`, with that we can try it at web.

For the webpage, you need to create a JPAK.jpakloader object with a `file` parameter for it, pointing to the package file, and set a onload function.
```javascript
var Package = new JPAK.jpakloader({"file" : "PackageFolder.jpak"});
Package.onload = function()   {
    alert("Package loaded!");
};
```

After that, you need to call the load function, to start loading the file. At the end of processing, it will execute the `onload` function (if it has been defined).

```javascript
Package.Load();
```

By that, you are ready to use it and get the files. I will show two examples of how you can manage files. One image, and one text.

You have two functions to get files.

```javascript
jpakloader.GetFile(path, type)
```
Arguments: 
*   `path`      -> That is the relative path to the package. If the file before packaging was at `PackageFolder/test.jpg` here you would put `/test.jpg`
*   `type`      -> The mimetype of the file. Used in construction of the blob. Defaults to `application/octet-stream`
*   `returns`   -> Returns a blob file with the contents of the file

```javascript
jpakloader.GetFileURL(path, type)
```
*   Same as GetFile, but returns a local `URL` to the blob content.

So basicly, for images you can do something like:

```javascript
var imagetest = Package.GetFileURL("/test.jpg", "image/jpeg"); 
$("body").append('<img src="'+imagetest+'">');
```

and you can do for HTML (text/plain) for example:

```javascript
var testdothtml = Package.GetFile("/test.html", "text/html");
var reader = new FileReader();
reader.onloadend = function(evt)  {
    $("body").append(evt.target.result);
};
reader.readAsText(testdothtml);
```


Class
========

The **JPAK** script has a few features. It caches the already loaded blobs to reduce the memory load, for example.
Here are few functions for now:

```javascript
jpakloader.ls(path)
```

Lists the content of the path

Arguments: 
*   `path`      -> The path you want to list
*   `returns`   -> Returns an object `{ "dirs" : [ arrayofdirs ], "files" : [ arrayoffiles ], "error" : "An error message, if happens" }`

```javascript
jpakloader.GetFile(path, type)
```

Return a blob of the file

Arguments: 
*   `path`      -> The file path to get
*   `type`      -> The mime type. Defaults to  **application/octet-binary**
*   `returns`   -> Returns an blob

```javascript
jpakloader.GetFileURL(path, type)
```

Return a Blob URL to embed as resource.

Arguments: 
*   `path`      -> The file path to get
*   `type`      -> The mime type. Defaults to  **application/octet-binary**
*   `returns`   -> Returns an string containing the Blob Data URL

```javascript
jpakloader.GetFileArrayBuffer(path, type)
```

Return an ArrayBuffer with contents of the file

Arguments: 
*   `path`      -> The file path to get
*   `type`      -> The mime type. Not used directly for this function, but for cache. Defaults to  **application/octet-binary**
*   `returns`   -> Returns an ArrayBuffer with contents of the file



```javascript
jpakloader.GetBase64File(path, type)
```

Return a Base64 Encoded Data from the File

Arguments: 
*   `path`      -> The file path to get
*   `type`      -> The mime type. Not used directly for this function, but for cache. Defaults to  **application/octet-binary**
*   `returns`   -> Returns an string of Base64 Encoded data.

```javascript
jpakloader.GetHTMLDataURIFile(path, type, encoding)
```

Return a HTML Data URI to embed as resource.
This is useful if you want to hide the image load process inside the script, as the browser doesn`t make network requests.

Arguments: 
*   `path`      -> The file path to get
*   `type`      -> The mime type. Defaults to  **application/octet-binary**
*   `encoding`  -> The Encoding of the file. *Optional*
*   `returns`   -> Returns an string of HTML Data URI in format: `data:[<MIME-type>][;charset=<encoding>][;base64],<data>`

Events:
========

*   `onload`    ->  Executed when the **jpackloader** ends loading the JPAK file
*   `onprogress`->  Executed when new progress is available. It has one object argument `{"loaded":loadedbytes,"total":totalbytes,"percent": percentComplete}`
*   `onerror`   ->  Executed when an error has ocurred.  It has one object argument `{"text": errormessage, "errorcode": errorcode}` - The Error Code can be HTML error or `jpakloader` specific error.

JPAK Loader Error Codes:
========

*   100->600    -   HTML Status Code. Consult **RFC-2616** for details.
*   8000        -   Wrong file magic


GZIP Support:
========

The GZIP Decompress support is a modified version of **zip.js** from https://github.com/jsxgraph/jsxgraph/ project. For now, the default behaviour of `jpakloader` is to check the `compressed` flag at file entry. If its true, it tryes to decompress the file. 
For **zip.js** license, consult the file or the JSXGraph Github

For compatible GZIPPing a file on Python you can do:
```python
import zlib
f = open("uncompressed", "rb")
data = f.read()
f.close()
data = zlib.compress(data, 9)   # Level 9 is important
f = open("compressed", "wb")
f.write(data)
f.close()
```

*   TODO on Tools: Add option to compress files on packer.py

Example
========

You can check the folder `test` for see a working simple example that loads an `image`, `javascript` and a `HTML` file to the page.

Commit message:

Added details about Crystal Clear Icons

README.md, after:

         _ ____   _    _  __        _   ___  
        | |  _ \ / \  | |/ / __   _/ | / _ \ 
     _  | | |_) / _ \ | ' /  \ \ / / || | | |
    | |_| |  __/ ___ \| . \   \ V /| || |_| |
     \___/|_| /_/   \_\_|\_\   \_/ |_(_)___/ 

Description
========

**JPAK** is a multi-use Javascript Package System, developed for loading several files at once with only one package.

For what this can be used?
========

**JPAK** can be used for many things. From game assets to webpage assets. It makes easier to preload all images and resources that you need for website.

What is done
========
*   Javascript Loader
*   Python Packer
*   JPAK 1.0 Specification file
*   Load progress event
*   Get file as Base64
*   Get file as HTML Data URI (for hide from Network Requests)
*   GZIP Decompress Support, forked from https://github.com/jsxgraph/jsxgraph/
*	Simple C# Windows Tool for Exploring and Export Content from JPAK Files

TODO
========
*   Load files from JPAK only when needed. A.K.A. - Fetch only the necessary parts from jpak file.
*   Add option to compress files on packing.
*	More stuff on JPAK Explorer for Windows
*	JPAK Explorer for Linux

How to use it
========

**JPAK** is made to be simple. You can use for any file you want. First, you need to create a JPAK package.

You can use the python script called **packer.py** at `packer` folder. The sintax is simple, just create a folder and thrown what you want on that package inside it.

```shellscript
python packer.py PackageFolder
```

This will generate a file called `PackageFolder.jpak`, with that we can try it at web.

For the webpage, you need to create a JPAK.jpakloader object with a `file` parameter for it, pointing to the package file, and set a onload function.
```javascript
var Package = new JPAK.jpakloader({"file" : "PackageFolder.jpak"});
Package.onload = function()   {
    alert("Package loaded!");
};
```

After that, you need to call the load function, to start loading the file. At the end of processing, it will execute the `onload` function (if it has been defined).

```javascript
Package.Load();
```

By that, you are ready to use it and get the files. I will show two examples of how you can manage files. One image, and one text.

You have two functions to get files.

```javascript
jpakloader.GetFile(path, type)
```
Arguments: 
*   `path`      -> That is the relative path to the package. If the file before packaging was at `PackageFolder/test.jpg` here you would put `/test.jpg`
*   `type`      -> The mimetype of the file. Used in construction of the blob. Defaults to `application/octet-stream`
*   `returns`   -> Returns a blob file with the contents of the file

```javascript
jpakloader.GetFileURL(path, type)
```
*   Same as GetFile, but returns a local `URL` to the blob content.

So basicly, for images you can do something like:

```javascript
var imagetest = Package.GetFileURL("/test.jpg", "image/jpeg"); 
$("body").append('<img src="'+imagetest+'">');
```

and you can do for HTML (text/plain) for example:

```javascript
var testdothtml = Package.GetFile("/test.html", "text/html");
var reader = new FileReader();
reader.onloadend = function(evt)  {
    $("body").append(evt.target.result);
};
reader.readAsText(testdothtml);
```


Class
========

The **JPAK** script has a few features. It caches the already loaded blobs to reduce the memory load, for example.
Here are few functions for now:

```javascript
jpakloader.ls(path)
```

Lists the content of the path

Arguments: 
*   `path`      -> The path you want to list
*   `returns`   -> Returns an object `{ "dirs" : [ arrayofdirs ], "files" : [ arrayoffiles ], "error" : "An error message, if happens" }`

```javascript
jpakloader.GetFile(path, type)
```

Return a blob of the file

Arguments: 
*   `path`      -> The file path to get
*   `type`      -> The mime type. Defaults to  **application/octet-binary**
*   `returns`   -> Returns an blob

```javascript
jpakloader.GetFileURL(path, type)
```

Return a Blob URL to embed as resource.

Arguments: 
*   `path`      -> The file path to get
*   `type`      -> The mime type. Defaults to  **application/octet-binary**
*   `returns`   -> Returns an string containing the Blob Data URL

```javascript
jpakloader.GetFileArrayBuffer(path, type)
```

Return an ArrayBuffer with contents of the file

Arguments: 
*   `path`      -> The file path to get
*   `type`      -> The mime type. Not used directly for this function, but for cache. Defaults to  **application/octet-binary**
*   `returns`   -> Returns an ArrayBuffer with contents of the file



```javascript
jpakloader.GetBase64File(path, type)
```

Return a Base64 Encoded Data from the File

Arguments: 
*   `path`      -> The file path to get
*   `type`      -> The mime type. Not used directly for this function, but for cache. Defaults to  **application/octet-binary**
*   `returns`   -> Returns an string of Base64 Encoded data.

```javascript
jpakloader.GetHTMLDataURIFile(path, type, encoding)
```

Return a HTML Data URI to embed as resource.
This is useful if you want to hide the image load process inside the script, as the browser doesn`t make network requests.

Arguments: 
*   `path`      -> The file path to get
*   `type`      -> The mime type. Defaults to  **application/octet-binary**
*   `encoding`  -> The Encoding of the file. *Optional*
*   `returns`   -> Returns an string of HTML Data URI in format: `data:[<MIME-type>][;charset=<encoding>][;base64],<data>`

Events:
========

*   `onload`    ->  Executed when the **jpackloader** ends loading the JPAK file
*   `onprogress`->  Executed when new progress is available. It has one object argument `{"loaded":loadedbytes,"total":totalbytes,"percent": percentComplete}`
*   `onerror`   ->  Executed when an error has ocurred.  It has one object argument `{"text": errormessage, "errorcode": errorcode}` - The Error Code can be HTML error or `jpakloader` specific error.

JPAK Loader Error Codes:
========

*   100->600    -   HTML Status Code. Consult **RFC-2616** for details.
*   8000        -   Wrong file magic


GZIP Support:
========

The GZIP Decompress support is a modified version of **zip.js** from https://github.com/jsxgraph/jsxgraph/ project. For now, the default behaviour of `jpakloader` is to check the `compressed` flag at file entry. If its true, it tryes to decompress the file. 
For **zip.js** license, consult the file or the JSXGraph Github

For compatible GZIPPing a file on Python you can do:
```python
import zlib
f = open("uncompressed", "rb")
data = f.read()
f.close()
data = zlib.compress(data, 9)   # Level 9 is important
f = open("compressed", "wb")
f.write(data)
f.close()
```

*   TODO on Tools: Add option to compress files on packer.py

C# JPAK Tool:
========

A C# Version of JPAK Tool is available. There is many things todo in there, but it works for the JPAK Explorer. The images used in thumbnail is from Crystal Clear, can be found at http://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/Crystal_Clear and its licensed under LGPL

Example
========

You can check the folder `test` for see a working simple example that loads an `image`, `javascript` and a `HTML` file to the page.
